ON FRIDAY, HACKERS WERE ABLE TO
PENETRATE A TOUCH SCREEN VOTING
MACHINE IN LESS THAN TWO HOURS.
THE MACHINE WAS USED IN A 2014
VIRGINIA ELECTION, AND THE HACK
WAS PART OF A DEMONSTRATION OF
ELECTION SYSTEM SECURITY
WEAKNESSES AT DEFCON IN LAS
VEGAS.
THE ANNUAL EVENT IS ATTENDED BY
HACKERS, BUT ALSO BY SECURITY
AND TECHNOLOGY FIRMS, GOVERNMENT
EMPLOYEES-- SOME UNDERCOVER--
AND OF COURSE REPORTERS.
DEFCON WRAPS UP TODAY, AND
JOINING ME NOW FROM SAN
FRANCISCO IS ROBERT McMILLAN OF
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL" WHO
HAS BEEN COVERING THE
CONFERENCE.
THAT HEADLINE, YOU KNOW,
SOMEONE HACKING ELECTIONS
MACHINE IN TWO HOURS, THAT HAS
EVERYONE KIND OF INTERESTED.
THIS IS NOT A MACHINE THAT IS IN
USE TODAY BUT IT WAS JUST A FEW
YEARS AGO.
>> YEAH AND IT WAS IN USE FOR
YEARS AND DEFINITELY HACKABLE
FOR YEARS.
THAT WAS THE THING THAT REALLY
CAUGHT MY ATTENTION JUST SITTING
THERE NEXT TO A GUY WITH A
LAPTOP WHO'S CONNECTING TO A
VOTING MACHINE THAT IS STATING
THAT IT WAS USED IN FAIRFAX
COUNTY IN 2014, CONNECTS TO IT
WIRELESSLY AND TAKES COMPLETE
CONTROL OF IT RIGHT IN FRONT OF
ME.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S BEEN SO
MUCH TALK ABOUT THE RUSSIANS AND
THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THE
ELECTIONS, AND REPEATEDLY THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND OTHER AGENCIES SAYS THERE
WEREN'T ANY VOTES MANIPULATED
FROM ONE SIDE TO ANOTHER.
THE HACK THAT WAS JUST
DEMONSTRATED HERE, WHAT IS THE
EXTENT OF THE DAMAGE IT COULD
DO?
>> IT COULD HAVE ALTERED THE
VOTES.
IT COULD HAVE DONE ANYTHING TO
THIS ONE VOTING MACHINE, YOU
KNOW, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
UNDETECTABLE AFTER IT HAPPENED.
SO THERE'S DEFINITELY CONCERNS
ABOUT THIS ONE PARTICULAR
MACHINE.
I THINK THE BROADER PICTURE
ABOUT WHAT WE NEED TO WORRY
ABOUT WITH VOTING MACHINE
SECURITY IS ONLY BECOMING CLEAR
RIGHT NOW.
YOU KNOW, I THINK FOR A WHILE
PEOPLE REALLY FOCUSED ON THE
INTEGRITY OF JUST THESE DEVICES.
YOU KNOW, TEN YEARS AGO WE HAD
AUDITS OF VOTING MACHINES AND
THERE WAS A LOT OF DISCUSSION
OF THIS.
BUT WITH WHAT HAPPENED LAST
YEAR, THE WHOLE SCENARIO OF WHAT
COULD BE HACKED AND HOW IT COULD
BE HACKED AND THE CONCEPT OF THE
NETWORK BEING ATTACKED, PEOPLE
ARE RETHINKING VOTING MACHINE
SECURITY RIGHT NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT WAS
INTRIGUING IS THAT THIS VOTING
MACHINE WAS USED IN 2014 BUT THE
HACKER LOOKS LIKE THEY FOUND A
HOLE THAT WAS... MICROSOFT
ISSUED A PATCH FOR THAT YEARS
AGO.
>> YEAH, AND THIS... I MEAN,
THIS MACHINE, IT'S CALLED A
WINVOTE MACHINE, IT'S WIDELY
CONSIDERED TO BE THE WORST
VOTING MACHINE EVER.
SO THE FACT THAT IT... THAT THIS
HAPPENED, TO PEOPLE THAT
FOLLOW THIS, IS NOT SURPRISING.
WE'VE KNOWN FOR YEARS THAT THESE
VOTING MACHINES WERE
VULNERABLE, BUT IT'S HARD TO
GET ACCESS TO THEM.
AND SO THE ACT OF ACTUALLY
SEEING SOMEBODY DO IT IS PRETTY
RARE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE STRENGTH
AND THE WEAKNESS OF OUR ENTIRE
SYSTEM IS THE FACT THAT THERE
ISN'T ANY UNIFORMITY IN THE
KIND OF MACHINES THAT EXIST IN
EVERY JURISDICTION ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY AND THERE'S ALSO NO
CENTRAL I.T. STAFF THAT SAYS,
"OKAY, HERE'S THE UPDATE, A
SOFTWARE PATCH THAT'S GOING TO
GO OUT TO EVERYTHING AT THE
SAME TIME, OR THAT A HACKER
COULD GET INTO THAT ONE CENTRAL
SYSTEM AND HACK EVERYTHING AT
THE SAME TIME.
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THE
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM WAS THAT
OUR SYSTEMS WERE SO DIVERSE
THAT IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO
COMPROMISE THEM IN A WIDESPREAD
WAY.
BUT I THINK WHAT WE'RE LEARNING
ABOUT THE 2016 EFFORT, THE FACT
THAT THERE WERE SO MANY STATES
AFFECTED, THESE WEREN'T VOTING
MACHINES, THESE WERE THE
MACHINES THAT KEEP TRACK OF THE
REGISTERED VOTERS, BUT THE FACT
THAT REMOTELY, PEOPLE WERE ABLE
TO ACCESS COUNTY SYSTEMS LIKE
THIS, AND, YOU KNOW, WHAT MIGHT
HAVE... WHAT MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED
AFTER THAT IS STILL A QUESTION
MARK.
SO I THINK THE WHOLE NETWORK OF
VOTING MACHINES AND PEOPLE ARE
REALLY REEVALUATING THIS
QUESTION OF HOW SUSCEPTIBLE THE
UNITED STATES IS TO SORT OF A
CENTRALIZED VOTING ATTACK.
>> Sreenivasan: ROBERT McMILLAN
OF THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
JOINING US FROM SAN FRANCISCO,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.